# Oceanographic-drivers-of-gopher-rockfish-recruitment
Repository for the code for the publication "Understanding the oceanographic drivers of historical gopher rockfish recruitment to project potential recruitment changes under climate change"

## Abstract 
To anticipate the impacts of climate change on fisheries, it is essential to understand how fish populations will respond to future ocean conditions. The productivity of fish populations, particularly recruitment, is greatly influenced by the survival of early life stages, all of which are highly sensitive to environmental conditions. This study investigates the environmental drivers of recruitment dynamics of gopher rockfish (S. carnatus), a spring-spawning nearshore rockfish species in the California Current System. Using stock assessment estimates of recruitment variability, we assessed historical relationships between gopher rockfish recruitment and regional biogeochemical variables (dissolved oxygen, pH, primary production, temperature), physical drivers (meridional wind stress, Coastal Upwelling Transport Index, sea level height), and large-scale climate indices (PDO, NPGO, ONI). The analyses identified the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) as the most consistent and significant environmental predictor of gopher rockfish recruitment, particularly during gestation and the early larval period in March. Warmer, more stratified conditions during positive PDO phases were associated with elevated dissolved oxygen, pH, and temperature in nearshore waters, coinciding with increased recruitment success. A partial least square regression also identified CUTI values averaged annually as a strong predictor of recruitment deviations, with higher recruitment seen in periods of relaxed upwelling conditions. Based on our understanding of environmental drivers of past recruitment, potential future shifts in recruitment were forecasted using modelling outputs from a regional ocean modelling system (ROMS), downscaled from three different Earth System Models, for biogeochemical drivers of DO, pH, and temperature. The forecasts indicate that ocean warming may enhance recruitment and subsequent population productivity while ocean acidification is projected to negatively impact recruitment. Future dissolved oxygen is projected to result in more recruitment variability with a slight decline by the end of the century. This modelling effort provides insight into how shifts in regional biogeochemical variables may impact population replenishment and fisheries sustainability for a key commercial and recreational fisheries target in a changing climate.
